Copyright © 2005-2010 Oliver Pfister, Switzerland
By installing ContaCam (henceforth "software"), you are agreeing to be bound
by the terms and conditions of this license.

This software is provided "as is", without any express or implied warranty.
In no event will the author/developer be held liable or accountable in any
way for any damages arising from the use of this software.


A. The unregistered ContaCam is a FREEWARE software characterized by a 3-hour 
capture time limitation. Permission is granted to any one individual to employ
this unregistered software for private (at home) and for commercial (at work) use.

Permission to use this unregistered software is subject to the following
restrictions:

1. The origin of this unregistered software must not be misrepresented. You shall
not claim that you wrote/developed/own the unregistered software.

2. You shall not reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble, translate or modify 
in anyway this unregistered software.

3. Distributing the unregistered software for any kind of remuneration is
prohibited. The Licensor grants you the royality-free right to reproduce and
distribute this unregistered software as part of a CD / DVD to be enclosed with 
the print issue of any magazine, book, or other printed publication, as long as no
extra fee is charged for the inclusion (or use) of this unregistered software.

4. This notice may not be removed or altered from any distribution of this
unregistered software. 


B. The registered version of ContaCam is a COMMERCIAL software characterized
by no capture time limitation. A registration key in form of a key file must
have been purchased from an authorized reseller. All key files are signed with
a unique identification number and contain the name of its owner. For each unique
ContaCam key file you are granted a nonexclusive, non-transferable, revocable
license to use the registered ContaCam on any single computer, provided the
registered software is in use on only one computer at any time. The registered
software is "in use" on a computer when it is loaded into temporary memory (RAM)
or installed into the permanent memory of a computer, for example a hard disk,
CD / DVD or other storage device.

Permission to use the registered Software is subject to the following
restrictions:

1. The origin of this registered software must not be misrepresented. You shall 
not claim that you wrote/developed/own the registered software.

2. You shall not reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble, translate or modify
in anyway this registered software.

3. Distributing or sharing key files is strictly prohibited. You are responsible
to keep the key file in a safe/secure place to avoid theft. You may assign all
of your licenses for ContaCam to another person or legal entity (the "Assignee"),
provided however, that prior to such assignment, the Assignee agrees in
writing to be bound by the same obligations and restrictions specified in the
terms and conditions of this license. Upon assignment of your licenses,
you agree to transfer to the Assignee all of your key files.

4. This notice may not be removed or altered.


END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS