Command to generate a self-signed certificate:
openssl req -x509 -noenc -days 3560 -newkey rsa:4096 -sha384 -keyout https.key -out https.crt -subj "/CN=localhost" -addext "subjectAltName=DNS:localhost,IP:127.0.0.1"

req: this subcommand specifies that we want to use the certificate 
signing request (CSR) management. We want to create a new X.509 cert, 
so we are using this subcommand.

-x509: this further modifies the previous subcommand by telling the 
utility that we want to make a self-signed certificate instead of 
generating a certificate signing request, as would normally happen.

-noenc: this tells OpenSSL to skip the option to secure the private key 
with a passphrase. We need Apache to be able to read the file, without 
user intervention, when the server starts up. A passphrase would 
prevent this from happening because we would have to enter it after 
every restart.

-days 3560: this option sets the length of time that the certificate 
will be considered valid.

-newkey rsa:4096: this specifies that we want to generate a new 
certificate and a new key at the same time. We did not create the key 
that is required to sign the certificate in a previous step, so we need 
to create it along with the certificate. The rsa:4096 portion tells it 
to make an RSA key that is 4096 bits long.

-sha384: use the SHA-384 hash (provides 192 bits of security) which 
aligns with the 4096 key (provides 152 bits of security).

-keyout: this line tells OpenSSL where to place the generated private 
key file that we are creating.

-out: this tells OpenSSL where to place the certificate that we are 
creating.

-subj: when you define a subject line with multiple fields, each field 
is separated by a slash and the leading slash signals OpenSSL that the 
very first field is beginning.

-addext: allows you to inject X.509v3 certificate extensions directly 
from the command line with the syntax "ExtensionName=Value". Use the 
flag multiple times for different extensions.

*** ATTENTION ***
If you are using openssl in Git Bash, MinGW or MSYS2 on Windows, 
verify the result because "/CN=localhost" may have been converted 
into a Windows paths (try a double-slash to prevent that):
openssl x509 -in https.crt -text -noout
